- [Instructor] The next step
will be to build the service definition file
which is the user.proto.
So let's go back to the IDE
and first I'll create a folder here under the main,
label that as proto
and make sure you mark this directory as a source folder.
And under this, I'll create a file, which is user.proto.
So let's go ahead and define the user service.
The first statement will of course be the syntax.
So that will be proto3.
The next will be the packet statement.
So let's give this a proper name,
we'll call it com.shopping.stubs.user.
We'll additionally also define the java_package
to explicitly state the Java package.
And I'm going to keep that exactly same
as the one that we defined on line number three.
So let's copy this and let's provide that as a value.
Also, let's make sure that java_multiple_files
is set to true.
The next step is to define the service.
So we'll say service, give a name, user service.
And under this list, you find a method
called getUserDetails.
This will take in our userRequest
and it should return a userResponse.
Now, let's go ahead and define those messages,
userRequest and userResponse.
So let's see message userRequest
and this will have a single field, which is the username
which is of a string type.
Let's tag that as one.
Let's also define the user response.
So I'll say message UserResponse
and this can have many other fields.
So let's begin with an id field.
Let's stack this as one.
This is just an incremental id value
that we can map from the database.
So just a place holder for that.
Additionally, it will also return the username field,
let's take that as two.
Then we can have another string field called name,
let's have another integer field for age
and another field which is of the gender type.
Now, this gender is not an inbuilt type
in the protocol buffers project
which is why I'm getting that error on line 21.
So what we will do is,
we will define this type explicitly in this proto file.
So let's come down and see enum Gender
and the moment you do this, the error is gone.
And since this is an enum, we'll define values for it.
So that will be MALE - 0, FEMALE - 1 and OTHER - 3.
Please know that the enum values
start with the number zero instead of one.
So there we go.
We have the entire service definition ready with us.
The last step of this will be
to just go and generate those classes.
So I'll click on the right-hand side Maven tab
and we can select the goals, clean, and install
in order to get the stubs generated.
So whatever we did with the protoc command
in our previous module, now we're doing it through Maven.
So let's run these two goals.
And when this project completes its build,
we should be able to see the auto-generated steps
for this service file.
So we'll build is completing now,
this will take a while when you do it for the first time.
The build was a success.
So if you see the target folder regenerated now
and under classes, you have com_shopping stubs user
and you'll have all the classes for the user service.
In addition to that, the user.total file
also comes in bundled inside the target folder.